---
amendno: 39-1723
cadno: CAD1996-MTRO-04
title: 目视检查方向舵调整片连杆组件
publishdate: 1996-09-25
effdate: 1996-09-25
tags: MTRO
categories: 中南管理局
author: 祝海鹰
---

### 适用范围 
所有SA26、SA226和SA227系列飞机。

<!--more-->
### 参考文件
1.1996年 8月 30日颁发的 BLA Nr：1990-135/2(AB)；
    2.FAA 
AD 90-24-03 修正案 39-6837。

### 原因、措施和规定 
    为了防止气动力振动引起结构变形，导致飞机失去控制。要求在本指令生效后15个使用小时内,完成荷兰适航部门1996年8月30日颁发的适航指令BLA Nr：1990-135/2(AB)及FAA AD 90-24-03所要求的内容. 
    完成该指令可以采取保证飞行安全的替代方法或调整完成时间，但必须得到适航部门的批准。 
后附FAA AD 90-24-03。 
    附件： 90-24-03 FAIRCHILD AIRCRAFT (SWEARINGEN AIRCRAFT): Amendment 39-6837. Final copy of Priority Letter 90-24-03. Docket No. 90-CE-69-AD. 
Applicability: SA26, SA226, and SA227 series airplanes (all 
  
serial numbers), certificated in any category.  
Compliance: Required within the next 15 hours time-in-service or 10 calendar days after receipt of this AD, whichever occurs first, unless already accomplished.  
To prevent aerodynamic vibration, structural deformation, and possible loss of control of the airplane, accomplish the following: 
(a) Visually inspect the rudder trim tab link assemblies (Part Numbers 27-42025-001 through 27-42025-009 as installed) as follows: 
(1) Remove the fairing strip between the vertical fin and rudder.  
(2) Check each connecting rod end for freedom of movement and corrosion around the bearing as follows:  
(i) Move the rudder trim system from full left to full right deflection and check for any indications of corrosion or binding in the rod end fittings. 
(ii) If necessary, remove the bolt connecting the actuator and each rod end and check the bearings for freedom of movement.  

(iii) Check the bolts connecting the rudder actuator to each rod end to insure each bolt is oriented vertically.  
(3) If either rod end is corroded, prior to further flight replace the affected rod end with a serviceable part.  
(4) If the rudder trim mechanism is incorrectly installed, or if either rod end bearing is binding, prior to further flight replace the affected connecting rod and rod end assembly with 

  
serviceable parts. 
(5) If corrosion or binding is not found, reinstall the fairing strip and return the airplane to service.  
NOTE 1: Fairchild Aircraft Service Notes 26-SN-061, 226-SN-162, and 227-SN-074 pertain to the subject of this AD.  
NOTE 2: Although not required by this AD, the inspections specified in this AD should be included in the regular aircraft maintenance program. 
(b) Airplanes may be flown in accordance to FAR 21.197 and 21.199 to a location where this AD may be accomplished.  
(c) An alternate method of compliance or adjustment of the compliance times that provides an equivalent level of safety may be approved by the Manager, Airplane Certification Office, Southwest Region, FAA, Fort Worth, Texas 76193-0150; Telephone 

(817) 624-5150. 
NOTE 3: The request should be forwarded through an FAA Maintenance Inspector, who may add comments and then send it to the Manager, Airplane Certification Office, Fort Worth, Texas 76193-0150. 
This amendment (39-6837, AD 90-24-03) becomes effective on January 25, 1991, as to all persons except those persons to whom it was made immediately effective by priority letter AD 90-24-03, issued November 20, 1990, which contained this amendment.  
