---
amendno: 39-3930  
cadno: CAD2003-C208-01  
title: 检查内侧前襟翼摇臂  
publishdate: 2003-01-29  
effdate: 2003-01-30  
tags: C208  
categories: 中南管理局  
author: 祝海鹰  
---
  
### 适用范围  
所有CESSNA 208和208B型飞机。  
  
<!--more-->  
### 参考文件  
1、FAA AD2002-22-17修正案 39-12944，生效日期：2002年 12月 31日。  
  
### 原因、措施和规定  
    发现内侧前襟翼摇臂裂纹造成摇臂失效，引起襟翼系统及其周围的结构损伤，昀后导致飞机失控。除非事先已完成，必须完成附件中FAA AD2002-22-17的要求。  
    完成本指令可采取能确保安全的替代方法或调整完成的时间，但必须得到适航当局的批准。  
附件：  
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration  
14 CFR Part 39  
[Docket No. 2002-CE-23-AD; Amendment 39-12944; AD 2002-22-17]  
2002-22-17 Cessna Aircraft Company: Amendment 39-12944; Docket No. 2002-CE-23-AD.  
(a) What airplanes are affected by this AD? This AD affects Models 208 and 208B airplanes, all serial numbers, that are certificated in any category.  
(b) Who must comply with this AD? Anyone who wishes to operate any of the airplanes identified in paragraph (a) of this AD must comply with this AD.  
(c) What problem does this AD address? The actions specified by this AD are intended to detect, correct, and prevent cracks in the bellcrank, which could result in failure of this part. Such failure could lead to damage to the flap system and surrounding structure and result in reduced or loss of control of the airplane.  
(d) What actions must I accomplish to address this problem? To address this problem, you must accomplish the following:  
  
Actions  Compliance  Procedures  
(1) Inspect, using eddy current inspection, the inboard forward flap bellcrank for cracks.  Initially inspect upon the accumulation of 4,000 landings on the bellcrank or within the next 250 landings after December 31, 2002 (the effective date of this AD), whichever occurs  In accordance with the Inspection Instructions of Cessna Service Bulletin No. CAB02-1, dated February 11, 2002, and the applicable maintenance manual.  
later. Repetitively inspect thereafter at every 500 landings until 7,000 landings are accumulated.  
(2) Replace the inboard forward flap bellcrank.  Prior to further flight when cracks are found; and upon the accumulation of 7,000 landings or within the next 75 landings after December 31, 2002 (the effective date of this AD), whichever occurs later.  In accordance with the Inspection Instructions of Cessna Service Bulletin No. CAB02-1, dated February 11, 2002, and the applicable maintenance manual.  
Note 1: Inboard forward flap bellcranks with 7,000 landings or more do not have to be replaced until 75 landings after the effective date of this AD.  
Note 2: The compliance times of this AD are presented in landings instead of hours. If the number of landings is unknown, hours time-in-service (TIS) may be used by multiplying the number of hours TIS by 1.25.  
(e) Can I comply with this AD in any other way? You may use an alternative method of compliance or adjust the compliance time if:  
(1) Your alternative method of compliance provides an equivalent level of safety; and  
(2) The Manager, Wichita Aircraft Certification Office (ACO), approves your alternative. Submit your request through an FAA Principal Maintenance Inspector, who may add comments and then send it to the Manager, Wichita ACO.  Note 3: This AD applies to each airplane identified in paragraph  
(a) of this AD, regardless of whether it has been modified, altered, or repaired in the area subject to the requirements of this AD. For airplanes that have been modified, altered, or repaired so that the performance of the requirements of this AD is affected, the owner/ operator must request approval for an alternative method of compliance in accordance with paragraph  
(e) of this AD. The request should include an assessment of the effect of the modification, alteration, or repair on the unsafe condition addressed by this AD; and, if you have not eliminated the unsafe condition, specific actions you propose to address it.  
(f) Where can I get information about any already-approved alternative methods of compliance? Contact Paul Nguyen, Aerospace Engineer, FAA, Aircraft Certification Office, 1801 Airport Road, Room 100, Wichita, Kansas 67209; telephone: 316-946-4125; facsimile: 816-946-4407.  
(g) What if I need to fly the airplane to another location to comply with this AD? The FAA can issue a special flight permit under §§ 21.197 and 21.199 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 21.197 and 21.199) to operate your airplane to a location where you can accomplish the requirements of this AD.  
(h) Are any service bulletins incorporated into this AD by reference? Actions required by this AD must be done in accordance with Cessna Service Bulletin No. CAB02-1, dated February 11, 2002. The Director of the Federal Register approved this incorporation by reference under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may get copies from Cessna Aircraft Company, Product Support, PO Box  
7706, Wichita, Kansas 67277; telephone: (316) 517-5800; facsimile: (316) 942-9006. You may view copies at the FAA, Central Region, Office of the Regional Counsel, 901 Locust, Room 506, Kansas City, Missouri, or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW, suite 700, Washington, DC.  
(i) When does this amendment become effective? This amendment becomes effective on December 31, 2002.  
  
