---
amendno: 39-4080
cadno: CAD2003-M900-02
title: 检查主旋翼叶片紧固螺栓
publishdate: 2003-07-03
effdate: 2003-07-04
tags: M900
categories: 中南管理局
author: 祝海鹰
---

### 适用范围 
装有件号为900R3100001-103的主旋翼叶片紧固螺栓，序号为900－00008到900－00114的MD900型直升机。

<!--more-->
### 参考文件1、FAA在 2003年 7月 2日颁发的紧急适航指令 2003－14－51； 2、MD直升机服务通告 SB900-092R1，颁发日期： 2003年 6月 30
日。

### 原因、措施和规定 为了防止主旋翼叶片紧固螺栓失效，引起主旋翼叶片脱落，造成直升机失控。     除非事先已完成，在本指令生效后，下次飞行前，必须完成附件中FAA紧急适航指令2003-14-51所要求的内容。     完成本指令可采取能确保安全的替代方法或调整完成的时间，但必须得到适航部门的批准。 
附件： EMERGENCY AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVE Aircraft Certification Service 
  
Washington, DC 
U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Aviation Administration DATE: July 2, 2003 
2003-14-51 MD HELICOPTERS, INC.: Docket No. 2003-SW-33-AD. Supersedes Emergency AD 2003-13-51, Docket No. 2003-SW-27-AD. Applicability: Model MD900 helicopters, serial number 900-00008 through 900-00114, with main rotor blade retention bolt (bolt), part number 900R3100001-103, installed, certificated in any category. 
Compliance: Required as indicated, unless accomplished previously. 
To prevent failure of a bolt, loss of a main rotor blade, and subsequent loss of control of the helicopter, accomplish the following: 
(a) Before further flight, remove, inspect, and reinstall the bolt in accordance with the Accomplishment Instructions, paragraph 2.B., of MD Helicopters Service Bulletin SB900-092 R1, dated June 30, 2003 (SB). If segments do not move freely or a crack is found, replace the bolt with an airworthy bolt before further flight. 
(b) Thereafter, before each start of the engines, for each bolt with 400 or more hours time-inservice (TIS) or if the hours TIS is not available for each bolt, visually check each bolt as follows: 
(1) Check that the position of each installed bolt has not shifted upward. 
(2) Check for a gap between the thrust washer and retainer. 
(3) An owner/operator (pilot), holding at least a private pilot certificate, may perform the visual check required by this paragraph and must enter compliance into the aircraft maintenance records in accordance with 14 CFR sections 43.11 and 

 
  
91.417(a)(2)(v)). 
(c) If a bolt has shifted upward or if there is no gap between the thrust washer and retainer (the gap indicates that the O ring is intact), before further flight, inspect the bolt in accordance with the Accomplishment Instructions, paragraph 2.B., of the SB. 
(d) After accomplishing paragraph (a) of this AD, thereafter, at intervals not to exceed 6 hours time-in-service, for bolts with 400 or more hours TIS, do a cam lever force inspection on each bolt, without removing the bolt, in accordance with the Accomplishment Instructions, paragraphs 2.B.(3) and 2.B.(6) of the SB. 
(e) Within 30 days, for bolts with 400 or more hours TIS, disassemble, inspect, and reinstall each airworthy bolt in accordance with the Accomplishment Instructions, paragraph 2.C. of the SB, except you are not required to report inspection results to MD Helicopters, Inc. If a crack, fretting, or corrosion is found, replace the bolt with an airworthy bolt before further flight. 
(f) Before accumulating 400 hours TIS, for bolts with less than 400 hours TIS, disassemble, inspect, and reinstall each airworthy bolt in accordance with the Accomplishment Instructions, paragraph 2.C. of the SB, except you are not required to report inspection results to MD Helicopters, Inc. If a crack, fretting, or corrosion is found, replace the bolt with an airworthy bolt before further flight. 
(g) Accomplishing paragraphs (e) or (f) of this AD constitutes terminating action for all of the requirements of this AD. 

