---
amendno: 39-4259  
cadno: CAD2003-C560-01  
title: 检查飞机俯仰配平系统  
publishdate: 2003-12-22  
effdate: 2003-12-22  
acmodels: ["C560"]  
tags: []  
engs: []  
pns: []  
mfrs: []  
admins: 中南管理局  
author: 王敏  
---
  
### 适用范围  
序号从0260至0396（含）的Cessna 560飞机，但飞机序号若包含在Cessna公司服务通告560-34-93（2001年3月16日颁发）适用飞机序号并已完成该服务通告的飞机除外。  
  
<!--more-->  
### 参考文件  
1、FAA AD 2003-23-02，修正案 39-13365，2003年 11月 4日颁发；  
 2、Cessna紧急服务信函 ASL560-27-10，2003年 10月 10日颁发。  
  
### 原因、措施和规定  
为防止配平系统的单点失效，从而使驾驶员在跑道配平状态时无法使用自动驾驶断开电门来阻止这种失效，使飞机失去可控性，要求完成FAA适航指令2003-23-02，修正案39-13365（2003年11月4日颁发）。  
    完成本指令可采取能保证安全的替代方法或调整完成的时间，但必须得到适航当局的同意。  
附件:FAA AD 2003-23-02。  
2003-23-02 Cessna Aircraft Company: Amendment 39-13365. Docket 2003- NM-225-AD.  
  
Applicability: Model 560 airplanes, having serial numbers 0260 through 0396 inclusive, certificated in any category; except those on which Cessna Service Bulletin 560-34-93, dated March 16, 2001, has been accomplished.  
Compliance: Required as indicated, unless accomplished previously.  
To prevent a single-point failure in the trim system from causing a runaway trim condition that the pilot may be unable to stop by using the autopilot disconnect switch, which could result in loss of control of the airplane, accomplish the following:  
Disengaging and Tie-Strapping Circuit Breakers  
(a) Within 5 days or 10 hours time-in-service after the effective date of this AD, whichever is first: Disengage the PITCH TRIM circuit breaker on the left circuit breaker panel and the SERVO 1 circuit breaker on the right circuit breaker panel, and install tie straps on those circuit breakers, per paragraphs 1.A. and  
1.B. of the Accomplishment Instructions of Cessna Alert Service Letter ASL560-27-10, dated October 10, 2003.  
Optional Inspection and Corrective Actions  
(b) Accomplishment of the inspection of the trim pc board assembly to determine the part number of the assembly and all applicable follow-on actions; per paragraphs 2.A., 2.B., and 2.C. of the Accomplishment Instructions of Cessna Alert Service Letter ASL560-27-10, dated October 10, 2003; terminates the requirements of paragraph (a) of this AD. Once the inspection and applicable follow- on actions have been accomplished, the tie straps on the pitch trim and autopilot servo circuit breakers may be removed and those circuit breakers may be re-engaged.  
  
Parts Installation  
(c) As of the effective date of this AD, no person may install a trim pc board assembly having part number 6518351-3 or -5 on any airplane.  
Alternative Methods of Compliance  
(d) In accordance with 14 CFR 39.19, the Manager, Wichita Aircraft Certification Office (ACO), FAA, is authorized to approve alternative methods of compliance for this AD.  
Incorporation by Reference  
(e) The actions shall be done in accordance with Cessna Alert Service Letter ASL560-27-10, dated October 10, 2003. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from Cessna Aircraft Co., P.O. Box 7706, Wichita, Kansas 67277. Copies may be inspected at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; at the FAA, Wichita Aircraft Certification Office, 1801 Airport Road, Room 100, Mid-Continent Airport, Wichita, Kansas; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC.  
(f) This amendment becomes effective on November 28, 2003.  
  
Effective Date  
