---
amendno: 39-4701  
cadno: CAD2005-M20J-01  
title: 检查及改装油箱  
publishdate: 2005-01-17  
effdate: 2005-01-21  
acmodels: ["M20J"]  
tags: []  
engs: []  
pns: []  
mfrs: []  
admins: 中南管理局  
author: 钟颖芬  
---
  
### 适用范围  
本指令适用于所有序号的M20C、M20D、M20E、M20F、M20G和M20J飞机：
（1）以上飞机按任何型别审定。
（2）根据补充型号合格证（STC）SA2277CE或SA 2350CE安装有O&N囊式油箱（Bladder Fuel Cell）的。
（3）已执行过以上所涉及2个STC中任何一个的，按任何型别审定的，所有序号的M20B型飞机。  
  
<!--more-->  
### 参考文件  
  1、FAA AD 2004-25-04，修正案号： 39-13891，2004年 12月 1日颁发；  
 2、O&N Aircraft Modifications Inc. 强制服务通告 No.ON-100，1998年 2月 1日颁发。  
  
### 原因、措施和规定  

  本指令的颁发是由于收到关于雨水进入囊式油箱的报告，以及其后对燃油系统进行评估的结果。雨水进入囊式油箱导致发动机工作不  
稳定或发动机动力完全丧失。     为防止此类事件的发生，自本指令生效之日起，要求完成附件中 FAA AD2004-25-04要求的工作，除非已事先完成。     完成本指令可采取能保证安全的替代方法或调整完成的时间，但必须得到适航部门的批准。  
  附件： FAA AD 2004-25-04 2004-25-04 Mooney Aircraft Corporation: Amendment 39-13891; Docket No. 98-CE-64-AD.  
When Does This AD Become Effective?  
(a) This AD becomes effective on January 21, 2005.  
What Other ADs Are Affected By This Action?  
(b) None.  
What Airplanes Are Affected by This AD?  
(c) This AD affects Models M20C, M20D, M20E, M20F, M20G, and M20J airplanes, all serial numbers, that are:  
(1) certificated in any category;  
(2) equipped with an O & N Bladder Fuel Cell installed per Supplemental Type Certificate (STC) SA2277CE or STC SA2350CE; and  
(3) This AD affects Model M20B airplanes, all serial numbers, that are certificated in any category and have any of the STCs referenced in paragraph (c)(2) incorporated by field approval.  
What Is the Unsafe Condition Presented in This AD?  
(d) This AD is the result of reports of rain water entering the fuel bladders and the information from the subsequent evaluation of the fuel systems.  
  
The actions specified in this AD are intended to assist in preventing water from entering the fuel bladders, which could result in rough engine operation or complete loss of engine power.  
What Must I Do To Address This Problem?  
(e) To address this problem, you must do the following: instructions in paragraph (f) of this AD as an alternative method of compliance for replacing the flush style fuel caps  
Actions  Compliance  Procedures  
(1) On both the left and right wing, inspect the drain valve to assure that it was inserted fully into the drain nipple  Within the next 12 months after January 21, 2005 (the effective date of this AD), unless already done (see Note 1)  Follow O & N Aircraft Modifications Inc. Mandatory Service Bulletin No. ON-100, dated February 1, 1998.  
(2) Modify any drain valve found not to be inserted fully into the drain nipple  Prior to further flight after the inspection required in paragraph (e)(1) of this AD, unless already done (see Note 1).  Follow O & N Aircraft Modifications Inc. Mandatory Service Bulletin No. ON-100, dated February 1, 1998.  
(3) On both the left and right wing do the following: (i) Install a foam wedge to reduce the amount of trapped fluids in the center fuel cell; (ii) Install an anti-ice mast forward of the vent tubes to prevent icing of the fuel tank vents; (iii) Drill a vent hole to prevent icing of the engine’s crankcase breathers; and (iv) Replace the flush style fuel caps and adapters with raised style caps and adapters. Follow the  Within the next 12 months after January 21, 2005 (the effective date of this AD), unless already done (see Note 1).  Follow O & N Aircraft Modifications Inc. Mandatory Service Bulletin No. ON-100, dated February 1, 1998.  
Note 1: All kits installed by (or obtained from) O&N Aircraft Modifications Inc. after February 1, 1998, incorporate the actions of this AD. If you have one of these kits installed, you may take "unless already done" credit for the actions of this AD.  
What Is the Alternate Method of Compliance (AMOC) for Replacing the Flush Style Fuel Caps as Required in Paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of This AD?  
(f) Instead of replacing the flush style fuel caps as required in paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this AD, you may do a preflight fuel system check prior to each flight. To do this, you must insert the following "Pilot Operating Procedures--Preflight Fuel System Check" (paragraphs (f)(1), (f)(2), (f)(3), and (f)(4) of this AD) into the Limitation Section of the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM):  
(1) Place a suitable container under the fuel strainer drain outlet prior to operating the strainer drain control for at least 4 seconds. Check strainer to ensure drain is closed.  
(2) Inspect the fluid drained from the fuel strainer and each wing tank quick drain for evidence of fuel contamination in the form of water, rust, sludge, ice, or any other substance not compatible with fuel. Also check for proper fuel grade before the first flight of each day and after each refueling. If any contamination is detected, comply with paragraph (f)(4) of this AD.  
(3) Repeat steps in paragraph (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this AD on each wing tank quick drain.  
(4) If the airplane has been exposed to rain, sleet, or snow, or if the wing  
  
fuel tanks or fuel strainer drains produce water or other contamination, you must purge the airplane fuel system to the extent necessary to ensure that there is no water, ice, or other fuel contamination.  
May I Request Another AMOC for This AD?  
(g) You may request a different method of compliance or a different compliance time for this AD by following the procedures in 14 CFR 39.19. Unless FAA authorizes otherwise, send your request to your principal inspector. The principal inspector may add comments and will send your request to the Manager, Wichita Aircraft Certification Office (ACO), FAA. For information on any already approved alternative methods of compliance, contact Paul O. Pendleton, Aerospace Engineer, FAA, Wichita ACO, 1801 Airport Road, Room 100, Mid-Continent Airport, Wichita, Kansas 67209; telephone: (316) 946-4143; facsimile: (316) 946-4107.  
Does This AD Incorporate Any Material by Reference?  
(h) You must do the actions required by this AD following the instructions in O & N Aircraft Modifications Inc. Mandatory Service Bulletin No. ON-100, dated February 1, 1998. The Director of the Federal Register approved the incorporation by reference of this service bulletin in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may get a copy from O & N Aircraft Modifications Inc., 210 Windsock Lane, Seamans Airport, Factoryville, PA 18419. You may review copies at FAA, Central Region, Office of the Regional Counsel, 901 Locust, Room 506, Kansas City, Missouri 64106; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to:  
  
<http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr _locations.html> .  
Issued in Kansas City, Missouri, on December 1, 2004. David A. Downey, Acting Manager, Small Airplane Directorate,  
Aircraft Certification Service. [FR Doc. 04-26915 Filed 12-8-04; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910-13-P  
