---
amendno: 39-4219  
cadno: CAD2003-C525-01  
title: 检查飞机俯仰配平系统  
publishdate: 2003-11-13  
effdate: 2003-11-14  
acmodels: ["C525"]  
tags: []  
engs: []  
pns: []  
mfrs: []  
admins: 中南管理局  
author: 王敏  
---
  
### 适用范围  
序号为525-0001，525-0002和525-0004至525-0159的Cessna 525飞机  
  
<!--more-->  
### 参考文件    FAA AD 2003-21-07，修正案 39-13342，2003年 10月 10日颁发  
  
### 原因、措施和规定  
    曾经发现右内侧前缘襟翼直角杠杆（bell crank）焊接有裂纹、丢失或缺损，这可能导致右内侧前缘襟翼直角杠杆失效，从而造成襟翼系统及周围结构损伤，使飞机降低或失去可控性。为防止该故障发生，要求完成FAA AD 2003-21-04，修正案39-13339（2003年10月8日颁发）要求的工作。  
    FAA AD 2003-21-04，修正案39-13339（2003年10月8日颁发）见本指令附件。     完成本指令可采取能保证安全的替代方法或调整完成的时间，但必须得到适航当局的同意。  
    附件:FAA AD 2003-21-04，修正案39-13339，2003年10月8日颁发 2003-21-04 Cessna Aircraft Company: Amendment 39-13339; Docket No. 2003-CE-41-AD.  
When Does This AD Become Effective?  
(a) This AD becomes effective on October 21, 2003.  
Are Any Other ADs Affected by This Action?  
(b) None.  
What Airplanes Are Affected by This AD?  
(c) This AD affects the following airplane models and serial numbers that are certificated in any category:  Model Serial No.  
  
208B 20800001 through 20800369. 208B0001 through 208B1014, 208B1017, 208B1018, 208B1020 through 208B1024, 208B1026, and 208B1029 through 208B1033.  
What Is the Unsafe Condition Presented in This AD?  
(d) This AD is the result of reports of cracks and missing/ incomplete welds in the right inboard forward flap bell crank. We are issuing this AD to prevent failure of the right inboard forward flap bell crank due to cracks, deformation, or missing/incomplete welds. Such failure could lead to damage to the flap system and surrounding structure and result in reduced or loss of control of the airplane.  
(e) To address this problem, you must accomplish the following,  
unless already accomplished (compliance with Cessna Caravan Service Bulletin CAB03-11, Revision 1, dated September 24, 2003): Actions Compliance Procedures  
(1) Inspect the right inboard forward flap bell crank assembly for cracks, deformation, and missing/incomplete welds. The affected flap bell crank incorporates one of the following  part numbers (P/N):  
(i) P/N 2622083-18;  
(ii) P/N 2622281-2;  
  
What Must I Do To Address This Problem?  
(iii) P/N 2692001-2; or Within the next 25 landings after October 21, 2003 (the effective date of this AD). If landings are unknown, then you may multiply hours time-in-service (TIS) by 1.25. For the purposes of this AD, you may substitute 20 hours TIS for 25 landings.  Use a flashlight and a mirror as necessary to see if welds (1), (4), (5), and (6) exist and are at least 0.06-inch thick around the full circumference of the shaft. These welds and the inspection procedures are referenced in Figure 1, details A, B, and C; and Views A-A and B-B of Cessna Caravan Service Bulletin CAB03-11, Revision 1,  
(2) If you find cracks, deformation, or missing/ incomplete welds during the inspection required by paragraph (e)(1) of this AD, then accomplish one of the following:  
(i) Replace the flap bell crank with a P/N 2622311-7 flap bell crank; or  
(ii) Prohibit the use of flaps through the actions of paragraph  
(f) of this AD.  Replace or do the flap prohibition actions prior to further flight after the inspection required in paragraph (e)(1) of this AD. If you choose the flap prohibition, you must have the replacement done within 200 hours TIS after the inspection required by paragraph (e)(1) of this AD. After the new flap bell crank (2622311-7) is installed, the Temporary Revision 208PHTR02, dated September 23, 2003, should be removed. Replacement: Use the ccomplishment Instructions of Cessna Caravan Service Bulletin No.: CAB02-12, Revision 1, dated  
  
January 27, 2003, and the Accomplishment Instructions of Cessna Caravan Service Kit No.: SK208-148A, dated January 27, 2003.  Flap Prohibition: Use the information in the Temporary Revision 208PHTR02, dated September 23, 2003. The action is referenced in Cessna Caravan Service Bulletin CAB03-11, Revision 1, dated September 24, 2003.  
What Are the Actions I Must Do if I Choose the Flap Prohibition Option?  
(f) Insert Temporary Revision, 208PHTR02, dated September 23, 2003, into the applicable pilot's operating handbook and FAA-approved airplane flight manual. The owner/operator holding at least a private pilot certificate as authorized by section 43.7 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.7) may incorporate this information into the AFM. Make an entry into the aircraft records showing compliance with this portion of the AD in accordance with Sec. 43.9 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.9).  
(1) This procedure applies to Cessna Models 208 and 208B landplanes. For other FAA-approved aircraft configurations (e.g., amphibian, floatplanes, etc.), you must operate with flaps up per the appropriate airplane flight manual supplement.  
(2) This procedure allows for applicable deviation from the Master Minimum Equipment List (MMEL) for these airplanes until the flap bell crank is replaced. The applicable MMEL requirements go back into effect at the time of flap bell crank replacement.  
Are There Differences Between the Service Information and This AD?  
(g) Yes. The service information requires an inspection on all flap bell cranks within the flap system. However, this AD only  
  
addresses the right inboard forward flap bell crank. To date, FAA has only received reports on the right inboard forward flap bell cranks, and we are addressing this issue through a final rule; request for comments (immediately adopted rule) AD action. After issuing this AD, we will evaluate the condition of the entire flap system and determine whether additional action is necessary.  
What About Alternative Methods of Compliance?  
(h) You may request a different method of compliance or a different compliance time for this AD by following the procedures in 14 CFR 39.13. Send your request to the Manager, Wichita Aircraft Certification Office (ACO). For information on any already approved alternative methods of compliance, contact Paul Nguyen, Aerospace Engineer, FAA, Wichita ACO, 1801 Airport Road, Room 100, Wichita, Kansas 67209; telephone: 316-946-4125; facsimile: 816-946-4107.  
Is There Material Incorporated by Reference?  
(i) You must do the actions required by this AD per Cessna Caravan Service Bulletin CAB03-11, Revision 1, dated September 24, 2003; Cessna Caravan Service Bulletin No.: CAB02-12, Revision 1, dated January 27, 2003; and Cessna Caravan Service Kit No.: SK208- 148A, dated January 27, 2003 (Original issue: October 21, 2002). The Director of the Federal Register approved the incorporation by reference of this service bulletin in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may get a copy from Cessna Aircraft Company, Product Support, P.O. Box 7706, Wichita, Kansas 67277; telephone: (316) 517-5800; facsimile: (316) 942-9006. You may review copies at FAA, Central Region, Office of the Regional Counsel, 901 Locust, Room 506, Kansas City, Missouri 64106; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC.  
  
Footer Information Issued in Kansas City, Missouri, on October 8, 2003. James E. Jackson, Acting Manager, Small Airplane Directorate,  Aircraft Certification Service. [FR Doc. 03-26115 Filed 10-16-03; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910-13-U  
