---
amendno: 39-5238  
cadno: CAD2005-C208-01R2  
title: 更改飞行手册相关部分  
publishdate: 2006-04-21  
effdate: 2006-04-21  
tags: C208  
categories: 中南管理局  
author: 钟颖芬  
---
  
### 适用范围  
所有序列号的Cessna 208和208B飞机。  
  
<!--more-->  
### 参考文件1、FAA AD 2006-06-06 Correction，2006年 4月 5日颁发； 2、FAA AD 2006-06-06，修正案号： 39-14514，2006年 3月 10日  
颁发。  
  
### 原因、措施和规定 本适航指令替代 CAD2005-C208-01R1，39-4930  
    本指令的颁发是基于以下几方面的原因：所涉及的飞机在结冰条件下运行时发生了几起事件/事故，FAA对Cessna飞行试验数据进行了评估，Cessna颁发了服务信息，同时FAA对该服务信息进行了评估。本指令的颁发就是为确保飞行员得到足够的信息以防止在结冰条件下运行时飞机失控。  
    自本指令生效之日起要求完成附件 FAA AD 2006-06-06 Correction（2006年4月5日颁发）中要求的工作，除非已事先完成。     完成本指令可采取能确保安全的替代方法或调整完成时间但必须得到适航部门的批准。 附件：FAA AD 2006-06-06 Correction（2006-04-05）  
CORRECTION: [Federal Register: April 5, 2006 (Volume 71, Number 65); Page 16994;www.access.gpo.gov/su_docs/aces/aces140.html]  
2006-06-06 The Cessna Aircraft Company: Amendment 39-14514; Docket No. FAA-2006-23648; Directorate Identifier 2006-CE-07-AD.  
When Does This AD Become Effective?  
(a) This AD becomes effective on March 24, 2006.  
Are Any Other ADs Affected By This Action?  
(b) Yes. This AD supersedes AD 2005-07-01; Amendment 39-14025.  
What Airplanes Are Affected by This AD?  
(c) This AD affects Models 208 and 208B, all serial numbers, that are certificated in any category.  
What is the Unsafe Condition Presented in This AD?  
(d) This AD is the result of several accidents/incidents with the affected airplanes during operations in icing conditions, FAA evaluation of Cessna flight test data, Cessna issuing service information, and FAA evaluating the service information. We are issuing this AD to assure that the pilot has enough information to prevent loss of control of the airplane while in-flight during icing conditions.  
What Must I Do To Address This Problem?  
(e) No later than March 27, 2006 (3 days after the effective date of this AD of March 24, 2006), incorporate the following revisions into the Airplane Flight Manual (AFM):  
(f) You must do the following, unless already done. These changes are to the Pilots Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-approved AFM and to the POH/FAA-approved AFM Supplement S1 "Known Icing Equipment'' mandated in paragraph (e) of this AD:  
  
(1) Cessna Model 208 airplanes and Model 208B airplanes, all serial numbers.  Section 2: Limitations and Section 4: Normal Procedures: Temporary Revision 208PHTR05, dated June 27, 2005, to the Pilots Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM).  
(2) Cessna Model 208 airplanes with a Pratt & Whitney of Canada Ltd., PT6A-114A turboprop engine installed (675 SHP) or FAA-approved engine of equivalent horsepower installed, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing.  Section 9: Optional Systems Description and Operating Procedures: Revision 6 of the 208 (675 SHP) POH/FAA-approved AFM Supplement S1 “Known Icing Equipment”, Cessna document D1352-S1-06, dated June 27, 2005.  
(3) Cessna Model 208 airplanes with a Pratt & Whitney of Canada Ltd., PT6A-114 turboprop engine installed (600 SHP) or FAA-approved engine of equivalent horsepower installed, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing.  Section 9: Optional Systems Description and Operating Procedures: Revision 6 of the Cessna Model 208 (600 SHP) POH/FAA-approved AFM Supplement S1 “Known Icing Equipment”, Cessna document D1307-S1-06, dated June 27, 2005.  
(4) Cessna Model 208B airplanes with a Pratt & Whitney of Canada Ltd., PT6A-114A turboprop engine installed (675 SHP) or FAA-approved engine of equivalent horsepower installed, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing.  Section 9: Optional Systems Description and Operating Procedures: Revision 7 of the 208B (675 SHP) POH/FAA-approved AFM Supplement S1 “Known Icing Equipment”, Cessna document D1329-0S1-007, dated June 27, 2005.  
(5) Cessna Model 208B airplanes with a Pratt & Whitney of Canada Ltd.,  Section 9: Optional Systems Description and Operating  
PT6A-114 turboprop engine installed  Procedures: Revision 6 208B (600 SHP)  
(600 SHP) or FAA-approved engine of  POH/FAA-approved AFM Supplement S1  
equivalent horsepower installed,  “Known Icing Equipment”, Cessna  
equipped with airframe deicing  document D1309-0S1-006, dated June  
pneumatic boots, that are not of the  27, 2005.  
currently prohibited from flight in  
known or forecast icing.  
Actions  Compliance  Procedures  
(1) For Cessna Model 208 airplanes and Model 208B airplanes, all serial numbers, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing: You are prohibited from continued flight after encountering moderate or greater icing conditions. The airplane can dispatch into forecast areas of icing but must exit moderate or greater icing conditions if encountered.  No later than March 27, 2006 (3 days after the effective date of this AD of March 24, 2006).  Not Applicable.  
(2) For Cessna Model 208 airplanes and Model 208B airplanes, all serial numbers, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing: (i) Insert the text in Appendix 1 of this AD preceding  No later than March 27, 2006 (3 days after the effective date of this AD of March 24, 2006).  The owner/operator holding at least a private pilot certificate as authorized by section 43.7 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.7) may insert the information into the POH as specified in paragraph (f)(2)  
the KINDS OF OPERATION LIMITS paragraph in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot’s Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM).  (ii) Insert the text in Appendix 2 of this AD in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B POH and FAA-approved AFM KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 at the beginning of the paragraph “REQUIRED EQUIPMENT”.  of this AD. You may insert a copy of this AD into the appropriate sections of the POH to comply with this action. Make an entry into the aircraft records showing compliance with portion of the AD in accordance with section 43.9 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.9).  
(3) For Cessna Model 208 airplanes and Model 208B airplanes, all serial numbers, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing: Install 3 placards with black letters on a white background. The placards shall be located on the instrument panel in one of the following areas: under the radio stack, immediately above the pilot’s flight instruments, or below the pilot’s vertical speed indicator. Lettering on the placard shall be a minimum height of 1.8-inch. (i) Placard 1 shall include the text of Appendix 3 of this AD. (ii) Placard 2 shall include the following text: “120 KIAS Minimum in Icing Flaps UP except 110 KIAS  No later than March 27, 2006 (3 days after the effective date of this AD of March 24, 2006).  The owner/operator holding at least a private pilot certificate as authorized by section 43.7 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.7) may install the placards as specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this AD. Make an entry into the aircraft records showing compliance with portion of the AD in accordance with section 43.9 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.9).  
if Climbing to Exit Icing”. (iii) Placard 3 shall include the following text: “Disconnect autopilot at first indication of ice accretion”.  
(4) For Cessna Model 208 airplanes and Model 208B airplanes, all serial numbers, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing: (i) Insert the text in Appendix 4 of this AD under the “AIRSPEED LIMITATIONS” paragraph in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B POH and FAA-approved AFM. (ii) Replace the text in the KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 UNDER THE“MINIMUM SPEED IN ICING CONDITIONS” paragraph with the text in Appendix 4.  (iii) Insert the following text in the LIMITATIONS section of the POH/AFM under the “OTHER LIMITATIONS” paragraph and in the LIMITATIONS section of the KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 under the “AUTOPILOT OPERATIONS IN ICING CONDITIONS” paragraph: “Disconnect autopilot at first indication of ice accretion”.  No later than March 27, 2006 (3 days after the effective date of this AD of March 24, 2006).  The owner/operator holding at least a private pilot certificate as authorized by section 43.7 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.7) may insert the information into the POH as specified in paragraph (f)(4) of this AD. You may insert a copy of this AD into the appropriate sections of the POH to comply with this action. Make an entry into the aircraft records showing compliance with portion of the AD in accordance with section 43.9 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.9).  
(5) For Cessna Model 208 airplanes and Model 208B airplanes, all serial numbers, equipped with  No later than March 27, 2006 (3 days  The owner/operator holding at least a private pilot certificate as authorized by  
airframe deicing pneumatic boots,  after the  section 43.7 of the Federal  
that are not currently prohibited  effective  Aviation Regulations (14 CFR  
from flight in known or forecast  date of this  43.7) may insert the  
icing:. (i) Replace the text in  AD of March  information into the POH as  
the PERFORMANCE section of the  24, 2006).  specified in paragraph (f)(5)  
Cessna Models 208 or 208B POH and  of this AD. You may insert a  
FAA-approved AFM KNOWN ICING  copy of this AD into the  
EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 UNDER THE  appropriate sections of the  
“STALL SPEEDS”paragraph with the  POH to comply with this  
text in Appendix 5.  (ii) Replace  action. Make an entry into the  
the “WARNING”text in the  aircraft records showing  
LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna  compliance with portion of  
Models 208 or 208B POH and  the AD in accordance with  
FAA-approved AFM KNOWN ICING  section 43.9 of the Federal  
EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 under  Aviation Regulations (14 CFR  
“ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS” with:  43.9).  
“FLIGHT IN THESE CONDITIONS ARE  
PROHIBITED”’. (iii) Replace the  
last two sentences in the  
LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna  
Models 208 or 208B POH and  
FAA-approved AFM KNOWN ICING  
EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 under  
“ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS” with  
the following text: “Exit  
strategies should be determined  
during preflight planning”.  
How Do I Remove the Icing Prohibition of Paragraph (f)(1) of This AD?  
(g) The prohibition from continued flight after encountering moderate or greater icing conditions (the prohibition of paragraph (f)(1) of this AD) may be removed when all of the following occurs:  
(1) The FAA, with Cessna's assistance, determines that the aircraft models  
can operate safely in icing conditions, and any required information from this activity is made available to operators;  
(2) The FAA approves a Low Speed Awareness System, that as a minimum incorporates an aural warning and activates at a minimum of 110 KIAS, and it is scheduled for installation on your aircraft within an acceptable amount of time;  
(3) You comply with AD 2006-01-11, Amendment 39-14450 (71 FR 1941) (or later revised AD), as required for your aircraft, and  
(4) The FAA will notify operators about paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this AD by either distribution of a special airworthiness information bulletin (SAIB) such that operators can apply for an alternative method of compliance and/or through a revision of this AD.  
May I Request an Alternative Method of Compliance?  
(h) You may request a different method of compliance or a different compliance time for this AD by following the procedures in 14 CFR 39.19. Unless FAA authorizes otherwise, send your request to your principal inspector. The principal inspector may add comments and will send your request to the Manager, Wichita Aircraft Certification Office (ACO), FAA. The alternative method of compliance to AD 2005-07-01, dated June 22, 2005 has now been incorporated into the rule. For information on any already approved alternative methods of compliance, contact Robert P. Busto, Aerospace Engineer, Wichita ACO, FAA, 1801 Airport Road, Wichita, Kansas 67209; telephone: (316) 946-4157; facsimile: (316) 946-4107.  
May I Get Copies of the Document Referenced in This AD?  
(i) You may obtain the service information referenced in this AD from The Cessna Aircraft Company, Product Support, P.O. Box 7706, Wichita, Kansas 67277-7706; telephone: (316) 517-5800; facsimile: (316) 942-9006. To view the AD docket, go to the Docket Management Facility; U.S. Department of  
  
Transportation, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Nassif Building, Room PL-401, Washington, DC, or on the Internet at <http://dms.dot.gov>. The docket number is FAA-2006-23648; Directorate Identifier 2006-CE-07-AD.  
Appendix 1 to AD 2006-06-06--Changes to the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual  
Affected Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM)  
Insert the following text at the beginning of the KINDS OF OPERATION LIMITS paragraph in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM). This may be done by inserting a copy of this AD into the POH/AFM:  
"Continued flight after encountering moderate or greater icing conditions is prohibited. One or more of the following defines moderate icing conditions for this airplane:  
Indicated airspeed in level cruise flight at constant power decreases by 20 knots. Engine torque required to maintain airspeed increases by 400 ft. lbs. Airspeed of 120 KIAS cannot be maintained in level flight. An accretion of \1/4\-inch of ice is observed on the wing strut.  
Disregard any mention of approval for flight in icing conditions within the POH/AFM.''  
Appendix 2 to AD 2006-06-06--Changes to the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual  
Affected Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM)  
Insert the following text in the LIMITATIONS section of the POH and FAA-approved AFM KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1, at the beginning of the paragraph "REQUIRED EQUIPMENT''. This may be done by inserting a copy of this AD into the POH/AFM:  
"Continued flight after encountering moderate or greater icing conditions is prohibited. One or more of the following defines moderate icing conditions for this airplane:  
Indicated airspeed in level flight at constant power decreases by 20 knots. Engine torque required to maintain airspeed increases by 400 ft. lbs. Airspeed of 120 KIAS cannot be maintained in level flight. An accretion of \1/4\-inch of ice is observed on the wing strut.  
Disregard any mention of approval for flight in icing conditions within the POH/AFM.''  
Appendix 3 to AD 2006-06-06--Cessna Model 208 Airplanes and Model 208B Airplanes, Equipped With Airframe Deicing Pneumatic Boots, That Are Not Currently Prohibited From Flight in Known or Forecast Icing  
Install a placard with black letters on a white background. The placard shall be located on the instrument panel in one of the following areas: Under the radio stack, immediately above the pilot's flight instruments, or below the pilot's vertical speed indicator. Lettering on the placard shall be a minimum 1/8-inch tall and state the following:  
"Continued flight after encountering moderate or greater icing conditions is prohibited. One or more of the following defines moderate icing conditions for this airplane:  
Airspeed in level flight at constant power decreases by 20 KIAS. Engine torque required to maintain airspeed increases by 400 ft. lbs. 120 KIAS cannot be maintained in level flight. Ice accretion of \1/4\ inch observed on the wing strut.''  
Appendix 4 to AD 2006-06-06--Changes to the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual Supplement S1  
Affected Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) and FAA-Approved Supplement S1  
Insert the following text into the LIMITATIONS section under the "AIRSPEED LIMITATIONS'' paragraph of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM), and Replace the text in the KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 under the "MINIMUM SPEED IN ICING CONDITIONS'' paragraph with the following text. This may be done by inserting a copy of this AD into the POH/AFM:  
Minimum airspeed in icing conditions, for all flight phases including approach, except takeoff and landing:  
Flaps up: 120 KIAS Flaps 10[deg]: 105 KIAS Flaps 20[deg]: 95 KIAS  
Exception for flaps up: when climbing to exit icing conditions airspeed can be reduced to 110 KIAS minimum.  
Flaps must be extended during all phases (takeoff and landing included) at airspeeds below 110 KIAS, except adhere to published AFM procedures when operating with ground deicing/anti-icing fluid applied.  
WARNING  
The aural stall warning system does not function properly in all icing conditions and should not be relied upon to provide adequate stall warning when in icing conditions.''  
Note: These are minimum speeds for operations in icing conditions. Disregard any reference to the original speeds within the POH/AFM.  
Appendix 5 to AD 2006-06-06--Changes to the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual Supplement S1  
Replace the text in the PERFORMANCE section of the POH/AFM KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 under the "STALL SPEEDS'' paragraph with the following text:  
"Ice accumulation on the airframe may result in a 20 KIAS increase in stall speed. Either buffet or aural stall warning should be treated as an imminent stall.''  
"WARNING--The aural stall warning system does not function properly in all icing conditions and should not be relied upon to provide adequate stall warning when in icing conditions.''  
