---
amendno: 39-5172  
cadno: CAD2006-C208-01  
title: 修改飞行员操作手册（POH）相关部分  
publishdate: 2006-02-09  
effdate: 2006-02-22  
acmodels: ["C208"]  
tags: []  
engs: []  
pns: []  
mfrs: []  
admins: 中南管理局  
author: 钟颖芬  
---
  
### 适用范围  
本指令适用于所有序号的Cessna 208和208B飞机。  
  
<!--more-->  
### 参考文件  
1、FAA AD 2006-01-11，修正案号： 39-14450，2006年 1月 5日颁发；  
 2、Cessna Caravan 服务包（ Service kit） No.SK208-146，2004年 10月 4日颁发；  
 3、Cessna Caravan服务通告 No.CAB95-19，1995年 10月 13日颁发；  
 4、Cessna Caravan附件包（Accessory kit）No.AK208-6C 修改版 C， 1993年 8月 27日颁发；  
 5、Cessna Caravan服务通告 No.CAB93-20修改版 1，1995年 10月 13日颁发。  
  
### 原因、措施和规定  
    本指令的颁发是由于收到几起在结冰条件下，飞机在空中和地面操作时发生事故的报告。本指令颁发的目的是提供一种安全方法，用于起飞前探测附着在机翼上表面（重要翼面）的结冰、积雪、霜冻、或泥泞的状况；并通过除去货舱吊舱和起落架整流盖板的冰以降低飞行中的阻力。机翼上表面、货舱吊舱、起落架整流盖板上附着冰可降低飞机性能，从而使飞机不能安全起飞、爬升或保持高度。  
    自本指令生效之日起，要求完成附件FAA AD 2006-01-11中规定的工作，除非已事先完成。     完成本指令可采取能确保安全的替代方法或调整完成时间，但必须得到适航部门的批准。  
附件：FAA AD 2006-01-11 (39-14450) 2006-01-11 The Cessna Aircraft Company: Amendment 39-14450; Docket No. FAA-2005-21275; Directorate Identifier 2005-CE-28-AD.  
When Does This AD Become Effective?  
(a) This AD becomes effective on February 22, 2006.  
What Other ADs Are Affected by This Action?  
(b) None.  
What Airplanes Are Affected by This AD?  
(c) This AD affects Models 208 and 208B, all serial numbers, that are certificated in any category.  
What Is the Unsafe Condition Presented in This AD?  
(d) This AD is the result of reports of several accidents involving the affected airplanes during operations in-flight and in ground icing conditions. We are issuing this AD to provide a safe method to detect ice, snow, frost, or slush adhering to the upper wing (a critical surface) prior to takeoff; and to reduce drag in- flight by shedding ice on the cargo pod and landing gear fairings. Ice adhering to the upper wing surface, cargo pod, or landing gear fairings could result in a reduction in airplane performance with the consequences that the airplane cannot perform a safe takeoff or climb or maintain altitude.  
(e) To address this problem, you must do the following:  
  
What Must I Do To Address This Problem?  
(1) Install the pilot assist handle SK208-146-2 subkit (part number (P/N) SK208-146-2( (or FAA-approved equivalent part number if the airplane will be operated in the ground icing conditions defined under "Visual/Tactile Check" in the LIMITATIONS section of the AFM after the compliance time).  Within the next 125 days after February 22, 2006 (the effective date of this AD), unless already done.  Install the pilot assist handle SK208-146-2 subkit (part number (P/N) SK208-146-2 (or FAA-approved equivalent part number) following step 4 of the Accomplishment Instructions of Cessna Caravan Service Kit No. SK208-146, dated October 4, 2004.  
(2) 14 CFR 21.303 allows for replacement parts through parts manufacturer approval (PMA). The phrase "or FAA-approved equivalent part number" in this AD is intended to signify those parts that are PMA parts approved through identicality to the design of the part under the type certificate and parts to correct the unsafe condition under PMA (other than identicality). Equivalent replacement parts to correct the unsafe condition under PMA (other than identicality) may also be  Not Applicable  Not Applicable.  
installed provided they meet current airworthiness standards, which include those actions cited in this AD.  
(3) Insert the text in Appendix 1 of this AD after the "OTHER LIMITATIONS"in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot’s Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual  (AFM).  Before further flight after compliance to paragraph (e)(1) of this AD.  The owner/operator holding at least a private pilot certificate as authorized by section 43.7 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.7) may insert the information into the POH as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this AD. You may insert a copy of this AD into the appropriate sections of the POH to comply with this action. Make an entry into the aircraft records showing compliance with portion of the AD in accordance with section 43.9 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.9).  
(4) For Cessna Model 208B with Pratt & Whitney of Canada Ltd., PT6A-114 Turbo Prop engine installed (600 SHP) or equivalent, and equipped with pneumatic deicing boots, do one of the following:.  (i) Install Cessna Accessory Kit AK208-6C per Cessna  Within the next 125 days after February 22, 2006 (the effective date of this AD), unless already done.  Install the cargo pod and landing gear fairing deice kit (part number (P/N) AK208-6C2) (or FAA-approved equivalent part number) following the Installation Instructions of Cessna Caravan Service Bulletin No. CAB95-19, dated October 13, 1995, and Cessna Caravan Accessory Kit No. AK208-6C,  
Service Bulletin CAB95-19; or.  (ii) Install a placard in view of the pilot which states "This airplane is prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing".  Revision C, dated August 27, 1993. The owner/operator holding at least a private pilot certificate as authorized by section 43.7 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.7) may install the placard as specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this AD. You may insert a copy of this AD into the appropriate sections of the POH to comply with this action. Make an entry into the aircraft records showing compliance with portion of the AD in accordance with section  43.9 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.9).  
(5) For all Cessna Model 208 and 208B airplanes equipped with pneumatic deicing boots and not included in paragraph (e)(4) of this AD, do one of the following: (i) Install Cessna Accessory Kit AK208-6C per Cessna Service Bulletin CAB93-20 Revision 1; or.  (ii) Install a placard in view of the pilot with the following words: "This airplane is prohibited  Within the next 125 days after February 22, 2006 (the effective date of this AD), unless already done.  Do the installation following the Installation Instructions of Cessna Caravan Service Bulletin No. CAB93-20, Revision 1, dated October 13, 1995, and Cessna Caravan Accessory Kit No. AK208-6C, Revision C, issued August 27, 1993. The owner/operator holding at least a private pilot certificate as authorized by section 43.7 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.7) may install the  
from flight in known or forecast icing".  placard as specified in paragraph (e)(5)(ii) of this AD. Make an entry into the aircraft records showing compliance with portion of the AD in accordance with section 43.9 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.9).  
(6) Insert the text in Appendix 2 of this AD in the "KINDS OF OPERATION LIMITS" in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot’s Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM).  Before further flight after compliance to paragraph (e)(4)(i) or (e)(5)(i) of this AD.  The owner/operator holding at least a private pilot certificate as authorized by section 43.7 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.7) may insert the information into the POH as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this AD. You may insert a copy of this AD into the appropriate sections of the POH to comply with this action. Make an entry into the aircraft records showing compliance with portion of the AD in accordance with section 43.9 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.9).  
(7) Delete the text in Appendix 3 of this AD from the "REQUIRED EQUIPMENT"in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot’s Operating  Before further flight after compliance to paragraph  The owner/operator holding at least a private pilot certificate as authorized by section 43.7 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.7) may insert the information into the POH as  
Handbook (POH) and FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) Supplement S1 "Known Icing Equipment".  (e)(4)(i) or (e)(5)(i) of this AD.  specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this AD. You may insert a copy of this AD into the appropriate sections of the POH to comply with this action. Make an entry into the aircraft records showing compliance with portion of the AD in accordance with  
section 43.9 of the Federal  
Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.9).  
Note: Cessna Caravan Service Bulletin No. CAB04-9, dated October 4, 2004, also addresses the installation of the pilot assist handle.  
May I Request an Alternative Method of Compliance?  
(f) The Manager, Wichita Aircraft Certification Office (ACO), FAA, has the authority to approve alternative methods of compliance for this AD, if requested using the procedures found in 14 CFR 39.19. For information on any already approved alternative methods of compliance, contact Paul Pellicano, Aerospace Engineer (Icing), FAA, Small Airplane Directorate, c/o Atlanta ACO, One Crown Center, 1985 Phoenix Boulevard, Suite 450, Atlanta, GA 30349; telephone: (770) 703-6064; facsimile: (770) 703-6097; or Robert P. Busto, Aerospace Engineer, Wichita ACO, FAA, 1801 Airport Road, Wichita, Kansas 67209; telephone: (316) 946-4157; facsimile: (316) 946-4107.  
Does This AD Incorporate Any Material by Reference?  
（g) You must do the actions required by this AD following the instructions in Cessna Caravan Service Kit No. SK208-146, dated October 4, 2004 and Cessna Caravan Accessory Kit No. AK208-6C, Revision C, dated August 27, 1993. The Director of the Federal  
  
Register approved the incorporation by reference of this service bulletin in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To get a copy of this service information, contact The Cessna Aircraft Company, Product Support, P.O. Box 7706, Wichita, Kansas 67277-7706; telephone: (316) 517-5800; facsimile: (316) 942-9006. To review copies of this service information, go to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, go to:  
<http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_re gulations/ibr_locations.html> or call (202) 741-6030. To view the AD docket, go to the Docket Management Facility; U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Nassif Building, Room PL-401, Washington, DC 20590-001 or on the Internet at <http://dms.dot.gov>. The docket number is FAA-2005-21275; Directorate Identifier 2005-CE-28-AD.  
Appendix 1 to AD 2006-01-11 Changes to the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual  
Affected Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM)  
Insert the following text after the "OTHER LIMITATIONS" in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM):  
COLD WEATHER OPERATIONS The airplane must be equipped with the following equipment when operating at an airport in the ground icing conditions defined under `Visual/Tactile Check' in the LIMITATIONS section:  
1. Pilot assist handle, Cessna P/N SK208-146-2 (or FAA-approved equivalent part number)  
Appendix 2 to AD 2006-01-11  Changes to the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual  
Affected Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM)  
Add the following to the equipment listed under "FLIGHT INTO KNOWN ICING" in the "KINDS OF OPERATION LIMITS" in the LIMITATIONS section of the FAA approved Airplane Flight Manual:  
Lower main landing gear leading edge deice boots Cargo pod nosecap deice boot  
Appendix 3 to AD 2006-01-11 Changes to the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual Supplement S1  
Affected Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) Supplement S1  
Remove the paragraph under "REQUIRED EQUIPMENT" in the Limitations section of the FAA Approved Flight Manual Supplement S1 "Known Icing Equipment", that currently reads as follows:  
The following additional equipment is not required for flight into icing conditions as defined by FAR 25, but may be installed on early serial airplanes by using optional accessory Kit AK208-6. On later serial airplanes, this equipment may be included with the flight into known icing package. If installed, this equipment must be fully operational:  
