---
amendno: 39-5665
cadno: CAD2005-C208-01R3
title: 更改飞行手册相关部分
publishdate: 2007-06-15
effdate: 2007-06-21
tags: C208
categories: 中南管理局
author: 朱江
---

### 适用范围 
所有序列号的Cessna 208和208B飞机。

### 参考文件    FAA AD 2007-10-15,修正案号：39-15056，2007年 5月 10日颁发。

### 原因、措施和规定 本适航指令替代 CAD2005-C208-01R2，39-5238 
本指令的颁发是CAAC认为2007年2月20日的关于AFM增补内容S1（关于装机防冰设备）的修订是必要的。该修订应加入飞机飞行手册（AFM）/飞行员操作手册（ POH），且在已知结冰情况下运行要求有低空速警告系统。本指令的颁发就是为确保飞行员得到足够的信息和必要的设备以防止在结冰条件下运行时飞机失控。
自本指令生效之日起要求完成附件FAA AD 2007-10-15 （2007年5月10日颁发）中要求的工作，除非已事先完成。    完成本指令可采取能确保安全的替代方法或调整完成时间但必须得到适航部门的批准。    附件： FAA AD 2007-10-15（2007-05-10）
2007-10-15 Cessna Aircraft Company: Amendment 39-15056; Docket No. FAA-2006-26498; Directorate Identifier 2006-CE-83-AD. 
Effective Date 
(a) This AD becomes effective on June 21, 2007. 
Affected ADs 
(b) This AD supersedes AD 2006-06-06, Amendment 39-14514. 
Applicability 
(c) This AD applies to Models 208 and 208B, all serial numbers, that are certificated in any category. 
Unsafe Condition 
(d) This AD results from our determination that the revisions dated February 20, 2007, to the S1 Known Icing Equipment AFM supplement are necessary and should be incorporated into the Airplane Flight Manual (AFM)/Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH); and that a low airspeed awareness system should be required when operating in known icing conditions. We are issuing this AD to assure that the pilot has enough information and the necessary equipment to prevent loss of control of the airplane while in-flight during icing conditions. 
New Actions Required by this AD 
(e) Unless already done, within the next 90 days after the effective date of this AD, incorporate the applicable new S1 Known Icing Equipment AFM supplement, dated February 20, 2007, into the AFM/POH: 

Document  Affects  
(1) Model 208 (675 SHP) FAA-approved Cessna Model 208 airplanes with a  
Flight Manual Supplement S1 “Known Icing Equipment,” Cessna document D1352-S1-10, dated February 20, 2007, or later FAA-approved revision that incorporates the same information.  Pratt & Whitney of Canada Ltd., PT6A-114A turboprop engine installed (675 SHP) or FAA-approved engine of equivalent or higher horsepower installed, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing.  
(2) Model 208 (600 SHP) FAA-approved Flight Manual Supplement S1 “Known Icing Equipment,” Cessna document D1307-S1-09, dated February 20, 2007, or later FAA-approved revision that incorporates the same information.  Cessna Model 208 airplanes with a Pratt & Whitney of Canada Ltd., PT6A-114 turboprop engine installed (600 SHP) or FAA-approved engine of equivalent horsepower installed, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing.  
(3) Model 208B (675 SHP) FAA-approved Flight Manual Supplement S1 “Known Icing Equipment,” Cessna document D1329-S1-10, dated February 20, 2007, or later FAA-approved revision that incorporates the same information.  Cessna Model 208B airplanes with a Pratt & Whitney of Canada Ltd., PT6A-114A turboprop engine installed (675 SHP) or FAA-approved engine of equivalent or higher horsepower installed, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing.  
(4) Model 208B (600 SHP) FAA-approved Flight Manual Supplement S1 “Known Icing Equipment,” Cessna document D1309-S1-10, dated February 20, 2007, or later FAA-approved revision that incorporates the same information.  Cessna Model 208B airplanes with a Pratt & Whitney of Canada Ltd., PT6A-114 turboprop engine installed (600 SHP) or FAA-approved engine of equivalent horsepower installed, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing.  
Note: The above supplements require the installation of a functional low airspeed awareness system. Cessna Service Bulletin CAB06-11 and Service Kit SK 208-171, both dated October 9, 2006, provide instructions for such an installation. 
(f) The owner/operator holding at least a private pilot certificate as authorized by section 43.7 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.7) may insert the information into the POH specified in all paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(4) of this AD. Make an entry into the aircraft records showing compliance with this portion of the AD in accordance with section 43.9 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.9). 
Actions Retained From AD 2006-06-06 
(g) The actions in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this AD below are retained in this AD from AD 2006-06-06. The new actions required by this AD in paragraph (e) above terminate the requirement for the actions in paragraphs 
(h) and (i) of this AD. 
(h) No later than March 27, 2006 (3 days after March 24, 2006, which is the effective date of AD 2006-06-06), incorporate the following revisions into the Airplane Flight Manual (AFM), unless already done: 
(i) No later than March 27, 2006 (3 days after March 24, 2006, which is the effective date of AD 2006-06-06), you must do the following actions, 

Affected airplanes  Incorporate the Following AFM Revision Document  
(1) Cessna Model 208 airplanes and Model 208B airplanes, all serial numbers.  Section 2: Limitations and Section 4: Normal Procedures: Temporary Revision 208PHTR05, dated June 27, 2005, to the POH and FAA-approved AFM.  
(2) Cessna Model 208 airplanes with a Pratt & Whitney of Canada Ltd., PT6A-114A turboprop engine installed (675 SHP) or FAA-approved engine of equivalent horsepower  Section 9: Optional Systems Description and Operating Procedures: Revision 6 of the 208 (675 SHP) POH/FAA-approved AFM Supplement S1 “Known Icing Equipment,” Cessna  
installed, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing.  document D1352-S1-06, dated June 27, 2005.  
(3) Cessna Model 208 airplanes with a Pratt & Whitney of Canada Ltd., PT6A-114 turboprop engine installed (600 SHP) or FAA-approved engine of equivalent horsepower installed, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing.  Section 9: Optional Systems Description and Operating Procedures: Revision 6 of the Cessna Model 208 (600 SHP) POH/FAA-approved AFM Supplement S1 “Known Icing Equipment,” Cessna document D1307-S1-06, dated June 27, 2005.  
(4) Cessna Model 208B airplanes with a Pratt & Whitney of Canada Ltd., PT6A-114A turboprop engine installed (675 SHP) or FAA-approved engine of equivalent horsepower installed, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing.  Section 9: Optional Systems Description and Operating Procedures: Revision 7 of the 208B (675 SHP) POH/FAA-approved AFM Supplement S1 “Known Icing Equipment,” Cessna document D1329-S1-07, dated June 27, 2005.  
(5) Cessna Model 208B airplanes with a Pratt & Whitney of Canada Ltd., PT6A-114 turboprop engine installed (600 SHP) or FAA-approved engine of equivalent horsepower installed, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing.  Section 9: Optional Systems Description and Operating Procedures: Revision 6 of the 208B (600 SHP) POH/FAA-approved AFM Supplement S1 “Known Icing Equipment,” Cessna document D1309-S1-06, dated June 27, 2005.  
 
unless already done. These changes are to the POH and FAA-approved AFM and to the POH/FAA-approved AFM Supplement S1 "Known Icing Equipment'' mandated in paragraph (h) of this AD. The owner/operator holding at least a private pilot certificate as authorized by section 43.7 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.7) may do the placard POH/AFM requirements as specified in the paragraphs below. Make an entry into the aircraft records showing compliance with portion of the AD in accordance with section 43.9 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 43.9): 
(1) For Cessna Model 208 airplanes and Model 208B airplanes, all serial numbers, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing: You are prohibited from continued flight after encountering moderate or greater icing conditions. The airplane can dispatch into forecast areas of icing but must exit moderate or greater icing conditions if encountered.  
(2) For Cessna Model 208 airplanes and Model 208B airplanes, all serial numbers, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing: 
(i) Insert the text in Appendix 1 of this AD preceding the KINDS OF OPERATION LIMITS paragraph in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B POH and FAA-approved AFM. 
(ii) Insert the text in Appendix 2 of this AD in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B POH and FAA-approved AFM KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 at the beginning of the paragraph "REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.'' 
(3) For Cessna Models and Models 208B airplanes, all serial numbers, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing: Install three placards with black letters on a white background. The placards must be located on the instrument panel under the radio stack, immediately above the pilot's flight instruments, or below the vertical speed indicator. Lettering on 
the placard must be a minimum height of 1/8-inch. 
(i) Placard 1 must include the text of Appendix 3 of this AD. 
(ii) Placard 2 must include the following text: "120 KIAS Minimum in Icing Flaps Up except 110 KIA if Climbing to Exit Icing.'' 

(iii) Placard 3 must include the following text: "Disconnect autopilot at first indication of ice accretion.'' 
(4) For Cessna Models 208 and 208B airplanes, all serial numbers, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots that are not currently prohibited from flight into known or forecast icing: 
(i) Insert the text in Appendix 4 of this AD under the "AIRSPEED LIMITATIONS'' paragraph in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 and 208B POH and FAA-approved AFM. 
(ii) Replace the text in the KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 under the "MINIMUM SPEED IN ICING CONDITIONS'' paragraph with the text in Appendix 4 of this AD. 

(iii) Insert the following text in the LIMITATIONS section of the POH/AFM under the "OTHER LIMITATIONS'' paragraph and in the LIMITATIONS section of the KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 under the "AUTOPILOT OPERATION IN ICING CONDITIONS'' paragraph: "Disconnect autopilot at first indication of ice accretion.'' 
(5) For Cessna Model 208 airplanes and Model 208B airplanes, all serial numbers, equipped with airframe deicing pneumatic boots, that are not currently prohibited from flight in known or forecast icing: 
(i) Replace the text in the PERFORMANCE section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B POH and FAA-approved AFM KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 under the "STALL SPEEDS'' paragraph with the text in Appendix 5 of this AD.  
(ii) Replace the "WARNING'' text in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B POH and FAA-approved AFM KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 under "ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS'' with: "FLIGHT IN THESE CONDITIONS ARE PROHIBITED.'' 

(iii) Replace the last two sentences in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B POH and FAA-approved AFM KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 under "ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS'' with the following text: "Exit strategies should be determined during pre-flight planning.''  
Alternative Methods of Compliance (AMOCs) 
(j) The Manager, Wichita Aircraft Certication (ACO), has the authority to approve AMOCs for this AD, if requested using the procedures found in 14 CFR 39.19. Send information to ATTN: Robert P. Busto, Aerospace Engineer, Wichita ACO, FAA, 1801 Airport Road, Wichita, Kansas 67209; telephone: (316) 946-4157; fax: (316) 946- 4107. Before using any approved AMOC on any airplane to which the AMOC applies, notify your appropriate principal inspector (PI) in the FAA Flight Standards District Office (FSDO), or lacking a PI, your local FSDO. 
(k) AMOCs approved for AD 2006-06-06 are approved for this AD until the actions in paragraph (e) of this AD are done. After this, they are no longer valid. The paragraph designations of the AMOC refer to paragraphs (e) and 
(f) of AD 2006-06-06, which are paragraphs (h) and (i) of this AD respectively. 

Related Information 
(l) To get copies of the AFM supplements and service information referenced in this AD, contact: Cessna Aircraft Company, Product Support, P.O. Box 7706, Wichita, Kansas 67277. To view the AD docket, go to the Docket Management Facility; U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Nassif Building, Room PL- 401, Washington, DC, or on the Internet at <http://dms.dot.gov>. The docket number is Docket No. FAA-2006-26498; Directorate Identifier 2006-CE-83-AD. 
Appendix 1 Retained From AD 2006-06-06 
Changes to the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) 
Affected Cessna Models 208 or 208B POH and FAA-Approved AFM 
Insert the following text at the beginning of the KINDS OF OPERATION LIMITS paragraph in the LIMITATIONS section of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B POH and FAA-approved AFM. This may be done by inserting a copy of this AD into the POH/AFM: 
"Continued flight after encountering moderate or greater icing conditions is prohibited. One or more of the following defines moderate icing conditions for this airplane: 
Indicated airspeed in level cruise flight at constant power decreases by 20 knots. Engine torque required to maintain airspeed increases by 400 ft. lbs.  Airspeed of 120 KIAS cannot be maintained in level flight. An accretion of \1/4\-inch of ice is observed on the wing strut.  Disregard any mention of approval for flight in icing conditions within the POH/AFM.'' 
Appendix 2 Retained From AD 2006-06-06  
Changes to the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) 
and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) 
Affected Cessna Models 208 or 208B POH and FAA-Approved AFM 
Insert the following text in the LIMITATIONS section of the POH and FAA-approved AFM KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1, at the beginning of the paragraph "REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.'' This may be done by inserting a copy of this AD into the POH/AFM: 
"Continued flight after encountering moderate or greater icing conditions is prohibited. One or more of the following defines moderate icing conditions for this airplane: 
Indicated airspeed in level flight at constant power decreases by 20 knots.  Engine torque required to maintain airspeed increases by 400 ft. lbs.  Airspeed of 120 KIAS cannot be maintained in level flight. An accretion of \1/4\-inch of ice is observed on the wing strut.  Disregard any mention of approval for flight in icing conditions within the POH/AFM.'' 
Appendix 3 Retained From AD 2006-06-06 
Cessna Model 208 Airplanes and Model 208B Airplanes, Equipped With Airframe Deicing Pneumatic Boots, That Are Not Currently Prohibited From Flight in Known or Forecast Icing 
Install a placard with black letters on a white background. The placard shall be located on the instrument panel in one of the following areas: Under the radio stack, immediately above the pilot's flight instruments, or below the pilot's vertical speed indicator. Lettering on the placard shall be a minimum \1/8\-inch tall and state the following: 
"Continued flight after encountering moderate or greater icing conditions 
is prohibited. One or more of the following defines moderate icing conditions for this airplane: 
Airspeed in level flight at constant power decreases by 20 KIAS.  Engine torque required to maintain airspeed increases by 400 ft. lbs.  120 KIAS cannot be maintained in level flight. Ice accretion of 1/4 inch observed on the wing strut.'' 
Appendix 4 Retained From AD 2006-06-06 
Changes to the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) Supplement S1 
Affected Cessna Models 208 or 208B POH and FAA-Approved AFM and FAA-Approved Supplement S1 
Insert the following text into the LIMITATIONS section under the "AIRSPEED LIMITATIONS'' paragraph of the Cessna Models 208 or 208B POH and FAA-approved AFM, and replace the text in the KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 under the "MINIMUM SPEED IN ICING CONDITIONS'' paragraph with the following text. This may be done by inserting a copy of this AD into the POH/AFM: 
"Minimum airspeed in icing conditions, for all flight phases including approach, except takeoff and landing: 
Flaps up: 120 KIAS Flaps 10[deg]: 105 KIAS Flaps 20[deg]: 95 KIAS  
Exception for flaps up: when climbing to exit icing conditions airspeed can be reduced to 110 KIAS minimum. Flaps must be extended during all phases (takeoff and landing included) at airspeeds below 110 KIAS, except adhere to published AFM procedures when operating with ground deicing/anti-icing fluid applied. 
Warning 
The aural stall warning system does not function properly in all icing conditions and should not be relied upon to provide adequate stall warning when in icing conditions.'' 
Note: These are minimum speeds for operations in icing conditions. Disregard any reference to the original speeds within the POH/AFM.  
Appendix 5 Retained From AD 2006-06-06 
Changes to the Cessna Models 208 or 208B Pilot's Operating Handbook (POH) and FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) Supplement S1 
Replace the text in the PERFORMANCE section of the POH/AFM KNOWN ICING EQUIPMENT SUPPLEMENT S1 under the "STALL SPEEDS'' paragraph with the following text: 
"Ice accumulation on the airframe may result in a 20 KIAS increase in stall speed. Either buffet or aural stall warning should be treated as an imminent stall.'' 
"WARNING--The aural stall warning system does not function properly in all icing conditions and should not be relied upon to provide adequate stall warning when in icing conditions.'' 
