---
amendno: 39-5024  
cadno: CAD2005-C525-01  
title: 检查发动机灭火器导线的安装  
publishdate: 2005-09-26  
effdate: 2005-10-07  
acmodels: ["C525"]  
tags: []  
engs: []  
pns: []  
mfrs: []  
admins: 中南管理局  
author: 钟颖芬  
---
  
### 适用范围  
本指令适用于以下型号和序号的 Cessna飞机：
型 号 序 号
525  525-0001至 525-0600。
525A  525A-0001至 525A-0234。
525B  525B-0001至 525B-0035。  
  
<!--more-->  
### 参考文件  
  1、FAA AD 2005-17-11，修正案号： 39-14232，2005年 8月 16日  
颁发； 2、Cessna Citation 服务通告 SB 525-26-01，2005年 4月 5日颁发； 3、Cessna Citation服务通告 SB 525A-26-02，2005年 4月 5日颁  
发；  
 4、Cessna Citation服务通告 SB 525B-26-01，2005年 4月 5日颁发。  
  
### 原因、措施和规定  

  本指令的颁发是由于收到关于导线错误接到发动机灭火瓶上的报告。导线错误地接到发动机灭火瓶上可导致在启动发动机灭火瓶时发动机灭火瓶失效，从而丧失对发动机火警的控制。本指令要求采取的工作就是要防止错误地将导线安装到发动机灭火瓶上。  
  自本指令生效之日起，要求完成所附FAA适航指令2005-17-11规定的工作，除非已事先完成。  
  完成本指令可采取能确保安全的替代方法或调整完成时间，但必须得到适航部门的批准。  
附件：2005-17-11 The Cessna Aircraft Company: Amendment 39-14232; Docket No. FAA-2005-21109; Directorate Identifier 2005-CE-21-AD.  
When Does This AD Become Effective?  
(a) This AD becomes effective on October 7, 2005.  
What Other ADs Are Affected by This Action?  
(b) None.  
What Airplanes Are Affected by This AD?  
(c) This AD affects the following airplane models and serial numbers that are certificated in any category:  
  
Model  Serial Nos.  
525  525-0001 through 525-0600.  
525A  525A-0001 through 525A-0234.  
525B  525B-0001 through 525B-0035.  
What Is the Unsafe Condition Presented in This AD?  
(d) This AD is the result of reports about the possibility to incorrectly connect the wires to the engine fire extinguisher bottles. The actions specified in this AD are intended to prevent incorrect installation of the wires to the engine fire extinguisher bottles, which could result in failure of the engine fire extinguisher bottles to discharge when activated. This failure  
could lead to the inability to control an engine fire.  
What Must I Do To Address This Problem?  
(e) To address this problem, you must do the following:  
Actions  Compliance  Procedures  
(1) Install identification sleeves on the wires for both engine fire extinguisher bottles.  Within the next 60 days or 100 hours time-in-service after October 7, 2005 (the effective date of this AD), which-ever occurs first.  Follow the Accomplishment Instructions in: (i) Cessna Citation Service Bulletin SB525-26-01; (ii) Cessna Citation Service Bulletin SB525A-26-02; or (iii) Cessna Citation Service Bulletin SB525B-26-01, all dated April 5, 2005, as applicable.  
(2) Reconnect the wires to both engine fire extinguisher bottles.  Before further flight after the sleeve installation required in paragraph (e)(1) of this AD.  Use the service information specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) of this AD.  
(3) Test the wires for correct installation  Before further flight after reconnecting the wires as required in paragraph (e)(2) of this AD.  Use the service information specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) of this AD.  
May I Request an Alternative Method of Compliance?  
(f) You may request a different method of compliance or a different compliance time for this AD by following the procedures in 14 CFR 39.19. Unless FAA authorizes otherwise, send your request to your principal inspector. The principal inspector may add comments and will send your request to the Manager, Wichita Aircraft Certification Office (ACO), FAA. For information on any already approved alternative methods of compliance, contact James P. Galstad, Aerospace Engineer, FAA Wichita ACO, 1801 Airport Road, Mid-Continent Airport, Wichita, Kansas 67209; telephone: (316) 946- 4135; facsimile: (316) 946-4107.  
Does This AD Incorporate Any Material by Reference?  
(g) You must do the actions required by this AD following the instructions in Cessna Citation Service Bulletin SB525-26-01; Cessna Citation Service Bulletin SB525A-26-02; and Cessna Citation Service Bulletin SB525B-26-01, all dated April 5, 2005 (as applicable). The Director of the Federal Register approved the incorporation by reference of this service bulletin in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To get a copy of this service information, contact The Cessna Aircraft Company, Citation Marketing Division, Product Support P.O. Box 7706, Wichita, Kansas 67277; telephone: (316) 517-6000; facsimile: (316) 517-8500. To review copies of this service information, go to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, go to: <http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr _locations.html> or call (202) 741-6030. To view the AD docket, go to the Docket Management Facility; U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Nassif Building, Room PL-401, Washington, DC 20590-001 or on the Internet at <http://dms.dot.gov>. The docket number is FAA-2005-21109; Directorate Identifier 2005-CE-21-AD.  
Footer Information  
Issued in Kansas City, Missouri, on August 16, 2005. Terry L. Chasteen, Acting Manager, Small Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service.  
