---
amendno: 39-8515
cadno: CAD2015-MULT-52
title: 液压系统-更换导管并增加卡箍
publishdate: 2015-11-13
effdate: 2015-11-13
tags: MULT
categories: 西北管理局
author: 徐蕾
---

### 适用范围 
MA60 and MA600 aircrafts, all manufacturer serial numbers, manufactured by Xi’an Aircraft Industry (Group) Company Ltd (XAC).

<!--more-->
### 参考文件: 
XAC Service Bulletin MA60-29-SB484 and MA600-29-SB135, both at original edition; And later approved revisions of above document are acceptable for compliance with the requirements of this CAAC Airworthiness Directive (CAD). 
 

### 原因、措施和规定 
Required as indicated, unless already accomplished previously. 
 
Reason:  
Fracture of hydraulic tubes on some MA60 aircrafts have been reported by operators. Analysis by XAC indicated that it was caused by lack of clamps incombination with vibration circumstance in engine nacelle, which would lead to wear and stress concentration, and the tubes may fracture due to alternating stress.  
This condition, if not detected and corrected, could cause leakage of hydraulic fluid, and further lead to a failure of hydraulic system.  
To address the unsafe condition, XAC has issued MA60-29-SB484 and MA600-29-SB135, both at original edition, to require the replacement of affected hydraulic tubes and installation of clamps for MA60 and MA600 aircrafts.  
For the reasons described above, this CAD is issued to require the replacement of affected hydraulic tubes and installation of clamps for MA60 and MA600 aircrafts according to MA60-29-SB484 and MA600-29-SB135, both at original edition, as applicable.  
 
Action and Prescription:  
Required as indicated, unless already accomplished.  
 
Within 2 months after the effective date of this CAD, accomplish the following actions for applicable aircrafts:  
(1) Prepare for modification in accordance with paragraph A of 
Implementation Instructions of MA60-29-SB484 and MA600-29-SB135, both at original edition, as applicable. 
 (2) Remove the affected hydraulic tubes and relevant components in accordance with paragraph B of Implementation Instructions of MA60-29-SB484 andMA600-29-SB135, both at original edition, as applicable.  
(3) Install new hydraulic tubes and relevant components in accordance with paragraph C of Implementation Instructions of MA60-29-SB484 and MA600-29-SB135, both at original edition, as applicable.  
(4) Accomplished the required checks and tests in accordance with paragraph D of Implementation Instructions of MA60-29-SB484 and MA600-29-SB135, both at original edition, as applicable.  
 
If requested and appropriately substantiated, the Local Authority can accept alternative methods of compliance for this CAD or adjust the time of completed. All of above must be approved by the Local Authority.  
 
This CAD is published in both Chinese and English. In case any discrepancy exists between the Chinese and English context, the Chinese version shall prevail. 
 
